Each freelancer will have their own unique story to tell.
Showing off your style but also what has made you who you are as a creative and it could be helpful
in selling yourself to potential clients.
Finding clients is like dating and showing your true authentic self goes a long way in finding clients
with a foundation rooted in trust.
We want to craft our story with our skillset in mind.
What inspired us to become creative artists designers photographers web designers.
Was there someone who inspired you to make you who you are today.
Is there someone who motivates you to go out on your own and make it as your own boss be thinking about
those questions.
So we begin to craft our stories together in this downloadable worksheet.
First of all let's get the tough part out of the way.
Let's develop a mission statement a mission statement is a small one to three cents description of what
you do and you're freelancing goals as an online instructor an example for mine is to teach the world
design and interesting and passionate ways by use of video student challenges and engagement with my
students as you could see it's one longer compound sentence.
Some of the best mission statements are quick one line phrases because being able to reduce your business
model until one sentence is a true test of having a simple viable service or product.
Here are some examples of mission statements of larger corporations that are simple unifying and they
explain their entire business model in such a short time.
Effectively Life is good to spread the power of optimism.
They sell motivational T-shirts and apparel of varying kinds but yet they don't mention apparel.
They mostly mention their main goals to spread the power of optimism.
This leaves their company mission statement over open for change as they add new products and services.
Their mission statement never has to adopt or change its evergreen as they say.
Another example for the company Uber we ignite opportunity by setting the world in motion.
You'll notice a theme here about not focusing so much on the services but the feelings emotions and
goals of the company.
They use the word opportunity and not once is the word car mentioned it's a car ride sharing company.
You think this would be critical in their mission statement but as they add new modes of transportation
their mission statement never needs to shift or change with it.
For Adobe only Adobe gives everyone from emerging artists to global brands everything they need to design
and deliver exceptional digital experiences Adobe's mission statement takes another direction and talks
about the unique advantage over its competitors.
They mentioned how they are the only ones who give artists everything they need to deliver digital experiences.
They do not go on to list how they do it but just that they do offer such a wide variety of products
and they do it very well.
So maybe after all this mission statement research I should revisit my own mission statement and I can
simplify it even more perhaps I can revise this to focus more on my main goal and motivation and less
on exactly how I do that.
How about to teach the world design an interesting and passionate ways by providing unique engaging
student experiences.
This leaves my business open to change without ever having to change the core values or mission statement
I can use video.
Expand into workshops and not once will I have to change my statement.
Let's head on over to the downloadable worksheet and see if you can craft your own mission statement.
Then we can move on to creating and writing our bio and story where we can go deeper into the type and
style and methods we use try writing your mission statement using little words as possible.
Keep it no longer than three total sentences and constantly find ways to reduce the length to say more
with less so now that you've written a small concise mission statement we get more detailed information
about your services are yourself and a story in bio bios can be boring or an incredible read.
You're the key qualities I see in great entertaining and rich bios.
They are honest and authentic.
This is taken from one of my favorite online design instructors Aaron Drapkin.
He's raw and authentic and its approach feels like a real person that matches his brash spunk and realistic
approach to design.
They're never too long and difficult to read.
I have seen some long freelancer bios in my day and if it's longer than two paragraphs I generally do
not read the last half.
It's the realism of trying to grab people.
Some people are more gravitated toward motion pictures photos and less of text and that's why crafting
and writing a bio that is short and manageable is critical.
I try to keep my less than a three minute read that leads into the next one.
They get to the point quickly by the end of the third sentence.
A great bio already communicate several things your name your main goals and your motivations and what
you do.
Not everyone list their services on their portfolio.
Sometimes the bio is the first time a viewer will see exactly what you do and have it listed.
Make sure you communicate that quickly.
If you're photographer communicate that in the second or third sentence at the very minimum.
Also if you're a jack of all trades and participate in multiple disciplines try focusing first on the
one that you're looking for clients in.
So if you're a photographer designer web designer extraordinaire.
Try focusing on web design.
Those are the type of clients who are seeking first and foremost.
Once your bio is written we've already written the bulk of what you will have on your portfolio and
web page.
It seems kind of tough at first working through these first few lessons of the course but once we get
to creating real tangible items and marketing products for a freelance business the core hard work will
already be done.
Lastly we need to write our copy and headlines for marketing.
These can be one or two liners that can make great Facebook ad post headlines.
Great poster headlines basically copy that can be written to grab people's attentions toward our services
that exist on a broad wide variety of platforms all the above mission statements bios and attention
grabbing headlines and even your services list can also be used in your portfolio or on freelancers
Web sites like up worked com to grab clients attention.
We'll be crafting an upward portfolio together and we'll go into even more detail on how to piece all
of this together on the site as well as many other sites so establishing your values and your culture.
This last section will establish our values and culture.
Is there something special or unique you stand for.
Do you use sustainable paints.
As an illustrator do you donate any proceeds to a charity as a photographer.
Do you value hard work and honesty.
All of these things play important parts in crafting that brand story because it's not just about who
you are but what we stand for and also the type of work culture we want to represent work culture is
for more than just larger companies.
It can be for a single employee business like you as a freelancer.
Also freelancers rarely work alone in the long term.
There's usually collaborations that happen when you start to take on larger clients.
How you work with those and other individuals and clients can set the tone for your company for years
to come once again working through this worksheet can get a lot of the hard work out of the way now.
So when it comes to creating those many promo items will create together in this class it will go much
much quicker.
Now that we have process through all of this now that we run down our story bio and other necessary
text now it's time to focus on my favorite things about branding the visual side of things and the inspirations
behind it.